Okay, custom types,
now we're going to go faster in this part.
And we're going to focus only on the parts
that we will actually spend time.
So we have typealias.
Typealias is a way to actually define
a different name for another type.
That can add some semantics, for example,
coordinate, it's a tuple of integer,
I can create a type alias of
a distance that is actually a float.
And then we can express every time you
see a distance is in meters, or miles.
So you set that and
then instead of just saying float,
you're using distance as a type.
You have an enums, okay?
Like in other languages,
like it gets more complicated,
enums can have a type can have a low
value, but we're not going to use this.
So I'm just focusing on
the import around the basics.
We can create classes.
We can create the structures.
What's a structure?
The structure at first it looks
very similar to tuples, okay?
With names with one difference.
So we can actually quickly, Add methods.
So in a structure I can have methods.
I can have initializers,
those are kinds of constructors.
And what's the difference with a class?
We don't use inheritance, so
we cannot have a superclass
with a struct,
it's just data with methods.
And every object instance of a structure,
typically we call them instances.
Every instance of a structure
is passed by value, by copy.
Every instance of a class is
passed by reference, okay?
We will see a couple of
differences later on that.
And finally we have protocols,
the protocol,
let me give you first a quick definition,
quick dirty and wrong definition.
It's like an interface in Java, just for
you to get into some mental model there.
An interface in Java or TypeScript or
C# or PHP, if you want.
So an interface is a set of function
names that then you need to comply with,
something like that.
But it's wrong, as I mentioned before,
because here, the protocol is different.
You can do that if you want, but also
there are a couple of more examples here.
But a protocol can have
optional functions.
So then you're not forced
to implement them.
So you can, if you want,
but you're not forced to.
And you can even create
the protocol without the function,
that is just a flyer.
It's a way to categorize objects.
And you can apply protocols to enum,
to classes and structs,
to every data type kind of,
every custom data type, okay?
We will see all of this in action, okay?
So if you wanna play with this,
class is actually pretty simple.
You can create hands class human,
let's say that every human has a name.
If you wanna set an initializer
basic constructor,
it's called init Without the func keyword.
If you wanna have methods, it just
the func keyword, like on other languages.
If you want initializers with arguments,
you just create an init with
arguments such as a need with name.
And we typically use this with
because it's part of the name, okay?
So then I can say name=withname, but
you can say withname,
that's a weird name for a variable.
So it's good from the outside, but
remember that you can separate
the argument labels from the actual
variable names with a space.
So I can call it name,
they have ambiguity.
How do you solve the problem in Java or
JavaScript, here?
Any language, anyone?
This, well, here in Swift,
it's not this, it's self.
You'll get used to that, okay?
It's self.
So self.name = name.
Well, this is empty,
that's why it's complaining.
That's how you quickly create a class.
And then it's OOP, so I can create, that's
a human, so we can create a customer.
And we can say that we are extending
from human with column.
It is similar to C# or C++, we don't use
the extends keyword, we just use colon.
But actually,
we are not going to write a lot of OOP
code in our Swift UI application.
A struct is just the same.
So instead of class, I say struct.
I cannot use, I don't use inheritance in
this case, so I just created a structure.
I can have methods,
I can have initializers.
The only difference that we have,
with struct,
actually very interesting difference.
Do you remember what happened with
classes if I set a variable with
the property that is not optional?
I have an error, let's do that.
Saying hey, you must set a string or
create an initializer that
sets that string because it's mandatory,
it's not optional.
If it's not optional, I cannot create
objects of this class without a name.
Well, on structures I don't
have that error because
the structure creates
an automatic initializer.
So I have an initializer with a name,
by default.
So if I wanna create a human let's
say that I'm a human kind of.
I don't need to create an explicit
initializer receiving the name,
it's already built in.
So every time you don't have OOP,
you have just data and
a structure in memory,
you just need to create a structure.
If you're not using OOP or
data sheets just create a structure.
It's faster,
it uses less memory than classes, yep?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> When you pass a human of
if I receive a function that
will print a human, so
I receive a human, okay?
And I do something with that.
So if I call print on a pass max as
an argument, it's creating a copy.
If it's a class,
it's passing it by reference.
In this case, it's creating a copy.
And I know that sounds kind of scary,
it's like,
I don't wanna make copies
of my objects all the time.
But this also had to do with memory
management, and the stack memory,
and so on.
And this is actually more efficient.
Structures, even if we are cloning this,
the data, it's just basic data.
It's being done really fast and
optimized in Apple platforms, for example.
So using a structure is much
faster than using classes.